---
layout:     post
title:      "Down the Rabbit Hole"
subtitle:   "3 Years later, an update."
date:       2019-05-30 14:12:02
author:     "Matt"
published:  false
header-img: "img/post1bg.jpg"
---

Welcome back. This blog has been needing an update for almost three years now (oops). Car work never stopped, but as I had less time, I stopped updating the blog. Long story short, it drives now! It will take me a while, but I will be documenting the process still with posts over this summer. While waiting to bring the blog up to speed on the major steps that brought the project to completion (although it's never really complete), I'll write some small posts about some of the minutia going on right now.

I have slowly been checking small projects related to getting the car restored. The most disgusting part of exposed subframe was directly behind the seats. In addition to there being a mess of factory wire harness sticking out, some of the old smelly and water damaged insulation mat was still sitting exposed. This area previously held two storage containers (which also had some gross water-damaged carpet). My goal was to make all of the parts that used to cover this area clean enough to be reinstalled to cover up the wiring. Remove the old insulation, then the panels would just be bolted back on, and the panels reinstalled with the storage containers. Easy, right?

The panels were badly rusted and needed to be restored. Also, they used to be covered with carpet, but I wanted to try to avoid putting carpet back into the car. The plan was to paint them to a nice finish so they didn't need to be covered by anything. I had just planned to give them a quick coat of PlastiDip (because it has a nice satin finish and is electrically isolating). But I felt wrong just painting over the rust on the panels, I knew the coat wouldn't last. So I jumped headfirst down the rabbithole and got to sanding.

Four full sheets of sandpaper, three ruined Dremel bits, and a dusty palm sander later the rust was off. It took about three hours, and by this point it was to dark outside to paint. One day project was now two.

While I waited for the sun to come back, I checked out the damage on the storage bins. I quickly gave up on cleaning the carpet and decided it needed to be replaced. I designed new brackets in CAD that would utilize the existing carpet pinning as attachement points to hold a sheet of polycarbonate to be the new floor of the storage container. These didn't take too long to make, and this part pretty much went to plan (imagine that). I threw a nice coat of paint on the polycarbonate sheets to give a nice "piano black" gloss finish and called it good.

The next day I had dry sanded panels ready to paint. I went with PlastiDip over normal spray paint for a couple reasons. First, it is electrically isolating, and now that there are some high voltage wires in that are of the car, I felt that this was a safer option. Second, PlastiDip doens't need a clear coat to get a really durable finish the way spray paint would (I'm sure you could with some spray paints but I don't trust them as much). Also the satin black finish of PlastiDip looks real nice in my opinion. Four-ish coats later, the panels were looking great and ready to be reinstalled.

Done! Project finished. Obviously not, nothing is that easy. It was at this point that I reallized the insulation was not just the foam mat that had easily come out. Underneath, was a thinner layer of "tar mats". I couldn't install the new insulation without first removing the tar mats. Also the tar mats were very gross and I wanted to remove them, which turned into another huge undertaking.

There are basically two ways to remove old tar mats: extreme heat or extreme cold. Considering the proximity to the batteries and success with my initial attempts at removing the mats using the cold stuff from an air duster, I decided to go with the later approach. People commonly use a dry ice slurry to freeze the insulation off, but I wanted a more concentrated source of cold because I didn't want to freeze the batteries (or get them cold enough that condensation could form inside). Hense, Freeze-Off cans.

That wasn't the only issue with reinstalling the panels though. Because we had used the bolt holes for the panels to attach the rear battery mount, we had to unbolt the front battery mount and lift it up to slide the panels in. It only takes one sentence to write, but took hours of pushing around big sheets of metal.

All the struggle aside, having it all reinstalled was a large step towards making the interior of the car feel less like a project car and more like the original quality.
